---
layout: post
---

Hi there! I started writing CosmicOS years ago and, picking it up again 
recently, I realize I've put far more effort into writing it than
into explaining it.  So I thought I'd start jotting down some 
notes on what it is and <i>why</i> it is.

I had run across a copy of
Freudenthal's <i>LINCOS: design of a language for cosmic intercourse</i> in
the library, and was struck by a few things:

 1. What a great name for a book!

 2. Impressed at a person capable of extreme formalism totally
    willing to put it aside when it gets in the way of communication.

 3. Loved the chapter on communicating fuzzy ideas via 
    conversations about math.

 4. Wondered what could be communicated via conversations about programs.

That was the seed for CosmicOS.  Communicating with 
an &ldquo;other&rdquo; is an interesting puzzle, and I'd like to see
lots and lots of answers to it.  For CosmicOS, my goal is to
use simulations as a compact way to describe enough of a world
for rich communication to be possible.  Unlike other messages,
I'm not including any real information about the physical universe
around us.  If we ever need a message like this, we might want
to keep some personal information out of it (just like 
we humans sometimes do on our own little internet).

It is quite hard to get a copy of LINCOS.  I don't want that to be
a problem for CosmicOS, so it is under a free license.  I think it
is pretty important to leave this kind of stuff open to remixing.
If you'd like to use or contribute to CosmicOS, drop 
by its <a href=https://github.com/paulfitz/cosmicos>repository</a>
and <a href=https://github.com/paulfitz/cosmicos/issues/new>say hi</a>!

